# Changelog

## Future release

### General

- Changes are now documented in `CHANGELOG.md` instead of inside individual Github releases

### Server

- API version is now 7.0
- ⚠️ Removed support for authentication via cookies (deprecated in Polaris 0.13.0)
- ⚠️ Removed support for authentication via the `Basic` scheme when using the HTTP `Authorization` header (deprecated in Polaris 0.13.0)
- Fixed a bug where all music sources would be deleted when trying to add sources with duplicate names
- Additional metadata fields are now indexed: lyricist, composer, genre and label (thanks @pmphfm)
- Endpoints returning thumbnail images or audio files no longer use HTTP `content-encoding`
- The `/thumbnail` endpoint now supports an optional parameter for small/large/native image sizing. (thanks @Saecki)

### Web client

- Volume slider now applies non-linearly
- Artist names are now displayed in the Random Albums and Recent Albums pages

## Polaris 0.13.5

### Server

- Added support for AIFF and WAVE files (thanks @gahag)

### Web Client

- Improved performance when scrolling large playlists
- Fixed display and playback issues when a song was used multiple times in a playlist
- Playlist duration can now display number of days
- Fixed a bug where the playlist panel could have blank space in very tall browser windows
- Major dependencies updates

## Polaris 0.13.4

### Server

Adjustments to logging behavior.

On Linux:

- Running without `-f` emits a log file
- Running with `-f` and no `--log` option does not emit a log file
- Running with `-f` and `--log` option emits a log file

On Windows:

- Running with UI feature (`polaris.exe` in releases) emits a log file
- Running without UI feature (`polaris-cli.exe` in releases) and no --log option does not emit a log file
- Running without UI feature (`polaris-cli.exe` in releases) and --log option emits a log file

## Polaris 0.13.3

### Server

- Fixed a bug where music that is no longer on disk was still considered in the collection, even after re-indexing
- On Windows, Polaris now creates a log file
- On Linux, Polaris now creates a log file, even when running with the -f option

## Polaris 0.13.2

### Web client

- Fixed a bug where it was not possible to view or edit which users have administrator rights
- Fixed a bug where, in some cases, drag and dropping a specific disc from an album would not queue the entire disc

## Polaris 0.13.1

### Server

- Fixed a bug where the Windows installer would create unusable installations. #122

## Polaris 0.13.0

### API changes

- Bumped API version number to 6.0.
- Added new endpoints to manage users, mount points and settings more granularly.
- Added support for authenticating via bearer tokens generated by the /auth endpoint. These token can be submitted via Bearer HTTP Authorization headers, or as a URL parameters (`?auth_token=…`).
- Authentication using cookies or Basic HTTP Authorization headers is deprecated and will be removed in a future revision.
- Authentication cookies no longer expire after 24 hours. The newly added bearer tokens also have no expiration date.
- Last.fm account linking now requires a short-lived auth token obtain from the newly added `lastfm/link_token' endpoint.

Server

- ⚠️Breaking change⚠️ If you use a config file, the `reindex_every_n_seconds` and `album_art_pattern` fields must now be in a [settings] section.
- ⚠️Breaking change⚠️ The installation process on Linux has changed a lot. See the README for updated installation instructions. A summary of the changes is available [here](https://github.com/ogarcia/docker-polaris/issues/2).
- Embedded album art is now supported for mp3, flac and m4a files (thanks @Saecki).
- OPUS files can now be indexed and streamed (thanks @zaethan).
- APE files can now be indexed and streamed.
- The collection indexer has been rewritten for better performance. This also fixed an issue where on some machines, the web client would be unusable while indexing (thanks @inicola for the code reviews).
- Thumbnail generation is now slightly faster, and works with more pixel formats (notably RGBA16).
- Polaris now uses actix-web instead or rocket. This change fixes numerous performance and stability issues.
- Sqlite is now bundled by default when building Polaris and was removed from the list of prerequisites. This can be controlled with the `bundle-sqlite` feature flag when compiling Polaris.
- The default album art pattern now includes the jpeg extension in addition to jpg.
- Album art patterns are now case insensitive.

Web client

- ⚠️Breaking change⚠️ Your current playlist will appear broken after this update. Please clear the current playlist using the trash can icon. Saved playlists are not affected.
- Added a logout button.
- Reworked interface for managing user accounts.
- Added a shuffle button to randomly re-order the content of the current playlist.
- The total duration of the current playlist is now displayed.
- Audio output can now be toggled on/off by clicking the volume icon.
- Individual discs from multi-disc albums can now be dragged into the playlist.
- When browsing to an album, songs are now displayed and queued in filepath order.
- Fixed a bug where albums could not be dragged from the random or recent views.
- Fixed a bug where directories with a # sign in their name could not be browsed to.

## Polaris 0.12.0

### Server

- Library indexing speed is now significantly faster
- When indexing files that have malformed ID3 tags, information preceding the error will no longer be discarded
- Deleted users can no longer make requests using an existing session
- When using a config file, existing users, mounts points and DDNS settings are no longer removed before applying the configuration
- When using a config file to create users, blank usernames are now ignored
- Improved architecture and added more unit tests

API Changes

- API version number bumped to 4.0
- The auth endpoint now returns HTTP cookies instead of a JSON response
- Client requests to update Last.fm status no longer return an error if no Last.fm account is associated with the user
- The thumbnail endpoint now supports an option to disable padding to a square image

Web client

- The web client now uses Vue instead of Riot as its UI framework
- Added support for theming

## Polaris 0.11.0

### Server

- Compatible with current versions of the Rust nightly compiler
- Fixed a rare crash when indexing corrupted mp3 files
- On Linux, Polaris now notifies systemd after starting up
- Release tarball for Linux version now includes a top-level directory
- User sessions no longer break across server restarts (more improvements still to do on this: #36)
- ⚠️ Breaking change: due to improvements in Polaris credentials management, you will have to re-create your users and playlists after upgrading to this version. If you want to preserve your playlists, you can use a program like DB Browser for SQLite to back up your playlists (from db.sqlite within your Polaris installation directory) and restore them after you re-create users with the same names.

### Web client

- Song durations are now listed when available
- Fixed a bug where clicking on breadcrumbs did not always work when the Polaris server is hosted on Windows
- Current track info now shows in browser tab title
- Fixed a semi-rare bug where indexing would not start during initial setup flow
- Improved handling of untagged songs
- Fixed a bug where playlist had padding in Chrome
- Fixed a bug where folder icons did not render on some systems

Thank you to @lnicola for working on most of the server changes!

## Polaris 0.10.0

### Server

- Polaris servers now ship with an interactive API documentation, available at http://localhost:5050/swagger
- When using a prefix URL in Polaris config files, a / will no longer be added automatically at the end of the prefix

### Web client

- Automatically bring up player panel when songs are queued
- Fixed a bug where songs were not always correctly sorted by track number in browser panel
- Fixed a bug where some button hitboxes didn't match their visuals

## Polaris 0.9.0

### Server

- Rewrote all endpoints and server setup using Rocket instead of Iron
- Fixed a bug where special characters in URL to collection folders were not handled correctly (bumped API version number)
- Server API is now unit tested
- Fixed a bug where lastFM integration endpoints did not work
- ⚠️ Compiling Polaris now requires the nightly version of the Rust compiler

### Web client

- Encode special characters in URL to collection folders

## Polaris 0.8.0

### Server

- Added new API endpoints for search
- Added new API endpoints for Last.fm integration
- Thumbnails are now stored as .jpg images instead of .png
- Duration of some audio files is now being indexed
- On Linux when running as a forking process, a .pid file will be written
- Fixed a bug where usernames were inserted in session even after failed authentication

### Web client

- Added search panel
- Added settings tab to link Last.fm account

## Polaris 0.7.1

### Server

- Added support for prefix_url option in configuration files
- Improved performance of thumbnail creation

## Polaris 0.7.0

### Server

- Added support for the Partial-Content HTTP header when serving music, this fixes several streaming/seeking issues when using the web client (especially in Chrome)
- New API endpoints for playlist management
- New command line argument (-p) to run on a custom port (contribution from @jxs)
- New command line argument (-f) to run in foreground on Linux (contribution from @jxs)
- Fixed a bug where tracks were queued out of order
- Updated program icon on Windows

Web client

- Added support for playlists
- Added a button to to queue the current directory (thanks @jxs)

## Polaris 0.6.0

### Server

- Internal improvements to database management (now using Diesel)
- Configuration settings are now stored in the database, polaris.toml config files are no longer loaded by default
- Added API endpoints to read and write configuration
- User passwords are now encrypted in storage
- Fixed a bug where results of api/browse were not sorted correctly

Web client

- Settings can now be edited from the web UI
- Collection re-index can now be triggered from the web UI
- Added initial setup configuration flow to help set up first user and mount point
- Visual changes

## Polaris 0.5.1

This is a minor release, pushing quite a bit of internal cleanup in the wild.

Server

- Removed OpenSSL dependency on Windows
- No longer send a HTTP cookie after authentication

## Polaris 0.5.0

This releases adds Linux support and a variety of improvements to the web client.

### Server

- Added Linux support
- Moved location of configuration file on Windows to `%appdata%\Permafrost\Polaris\polaris.toml`

### Web client

- Performance improvements from upgrading RiotJS to 3.4.4 (from 2.6.2)
- Added support for browsing random and recently added albums
- Minor visual changes (colors, whitespace, etc.)
- Updated favicon
- Fixed a bug where songs containing special characters in their title would not play
- Persist playlist and player state across sessions

## Polaris 0.4.0

This release adds new features supporting the development of polaris-android.

### Server

- Added API endpoint to pull recently added albums
- Added support for the Authorization HTTP header (in addition to the existing /auth API endpoint)

## Polaris 0.3.0

This release is an intermediate release addressing issues with the installation process and updating internals.

### General

- Fixed missing OpenSSL DLL in Windows installer (fixes Issue #3)
- Split every file into an individual installer component

### Server

- Added API endpoint to pull random albums
- Upgraded dependencies
- Added unit tests to indexing and metadata decoding

### Web client

- Web interface playlist now displays more tracks (enough to fill a 4k monitor at normal font size)

## Polaris 0.2.0

This release is focused on polish and performance, solidifying the basics that were put together in version 0.1.0. Here are the major changes:

### General

- Polaris now has a project logo
- Windows installer now supports upgrading an existing install (from 0.2.0 to higher - versions)
- Added support for multi-disc albums

### Server

- Major performance improvements to /browse and /flatten API requests (up to 1000x - faster for large requests)
- Added API endpoint for version number
- Album covers are now served as thumbnails rather than at source size
- Moved configuration file outside of /Program Files
- Added support for Ogg Vorbis, FLAC and APE metadata
- Fixed a bug where most albums didn't show an artist name
- Fixed a bug where uppercase extensions were not recognized
- Upgraded compiler to Rust 1.13

### Web client

- Complete visual overhaul of the Polaris web client
- Performance improvements for handling large playlist in Polaris web client
- Added error messages when playing songs in unsupported formats

## Polaris 0.1.0

This is the very first Polaris release, celebrating the minimum viable product!

Features in this release:

- Server application with Windows Installer
- Support for multiple users
- Support for serving custom music directories
- Support for custom album art pattern matching
- Support for broadcasting IP to YDNS
- Web UI to browse collection, manage playlist and listen to music
